## starSpectrumCreator.py
#### A script for randomly generating blackbody spectra for stars
---
Author: Jesse A. Rogerson, York University, jesserogerson.com, rogerson@yorku.ca

Additional credits:

1. Advice provided by Geoff Matthews, mathewsgeoff@fhda.edu, for line lists of
multiple elements.

#### DESCRIPTION:
This script randomly generates stellar spectra and randomly puts absorption
features of various elements on that spectra.

#### LEARNING GOALS:
This script was developed for use in NATS1740, an introductory astronomy course
for non-science majors at York University, Toronto. The students who take NATS
courses at YorkU come from a wide variety of academic backgrounds, mostly with
little-to-no scientific experience.

The following learning outcomes influenced the building of this script, and the
project associated with it:
- working with graphs, X-axis, Y-axis, reading values
- working with spectra in graph-form (as opposed to the 'rainbow'-form)
- comfort with the type of light stars produce across the EM spectrum, the
  difference between UV, Visible, and Infrared, specifically
- how temperature affects the full spectrum of light from a star
- what an absorption feature is, and how to identify a specific element
- what an emission feature is, and how to identify a specific element
- understand how relative motion affects the absorption/emission patterns via
  the doppler effect

#### FOR HELP:

$> ./ starSpectrumCreator.py -h

usage: starSpectrumCreator.py [-h] [-out OUT] studentList.csv

positional arguments:
studentList.csv     /path/to/list/of/students. Must be a CSV file,
                    with column 1: student number, column 2: last name,
                    column 3: first name. More columns are fine,
                    they wont be used.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help        show this help message and exit
  -out OUT          Two output files are always created, with prefixes
                    'ANSWERS_' and 'STUDENT_'. This argument allows you to
                    specify the root/suffix of those two PDFs.
                    The default is: randomStarSpectra.pdf

#### OUTPUTS:
The output of this script is two PDFs: one to give to the student, and one to
give to the Professor/TA/Teaching Team (the latter contains answers).

The script generates a unique spectrum for each student in the class, given the
list of students provided in CSV format, and then creates the following files:

1. STUDENT_[randomStarSpectra.pdf] - meant to be handed directly to the student
2. ANSWERS_[randomStarSpectra.pdf] - meant to be kept for grading purposes.

(note that [randomStarSpectra.pdf] can be changed by the user running the script)

In the STUDENT_[randomStarSpectra.pdf], each student corresponds to one page
in the output PDF. On each page, there are two figures:

Figure 1: a full blackbody spectrum of their star, generated by randomly
selecting a temperature between 2400 < T (K) < 30,000. Absorption patterns are
are randomly chosen and placed on the spectrum, in the visible portion of the
electromagnetic spectrum. They are difficult to see, as Figure 1 is zoomed out.

Figure 2: a zoom-in on the 400nm to 700nm portion of the star's electromagnetic
spectrum, so that students may better see the absorption pattern

Each star's spectrum has a random temperature and a random set of
absorption features. The STUDENT_ PDF also contains additional information the
student may need to answer questions.

In the ANSWERS_[randomStarSpectra.pdf], everything is the exact same, but with
some additional information:
a) Figure 1's title contains the random temperature used to create the spectrum
b) Figure 1 has a label pointing to the peak intensity, and the wavelength at
   which it occurs
c) Figure 2's title contains the elements used to create the absorption pattern

This additional information is used for grading purposes.

#### NOTES:
a) The absorption pattern is randomly selected from an internal set of common
elements. Therefore, the elements that create the absorption patterns seen in
the outputted spectra do not match the known elements found in each spectral
type. Consult the following to see what are the common elements found in each
spectral type spectra:

- Table 17.3, [Astronomy 2e, Opentext](https://openstax.org/books/astronomy-2e/pages/17-3-the-spectra-of-stars-and-brown-dwarfs)
- University of Nebraska-Lincoln. (2023). [Spectroscopic Parallax Simulator](https://astro.unl.edu/classaction/animations/stellarprops/spectroparallax.html)

b) The line list and intensities of those lines are not entirely real, they are
based on both coversations with Geoff Mathews and the data found at [NIST](https://physics.nist.gov/PhysRefData/Handbook/Tables/heliumtable1_a.htm)

However, for ease of use, only some lines were chosen and their intensities have
been adjusted to see them better. Since this script is meant for teaching
purposes (and should never be used for any research applications), it focusses
on concepts, not accuracy.

c)Future Ideas:
- make it possible for the user to choose the elements via optional arguments.
- use the correct elements for the absorption patterns depending on spectral type
- have absorption patterns extend across the UV, visible, and infrared
